This project aimed to evaluate how inclusion complexes with cyclodextrins effectively improve the solubility and increase the bioavailability of drugs. A systematic search was performed for studies, published in the English language from 2000 up to 2023, that reported pharmacokinetic parameters (PK) of drugs in inclusion complexes with cyclodextrin and produced 380 studies in total of which 11 were eligible.  Meta-analysis provided summary estimates for PK parameter estimates of different complex systems. Heterogeneity was assessed by estimating the I2 statistic and performing a visual inspection of forest plots. Summary of the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) and maximum drug concentration in plasma (Cmax) estimates were compared and analyzed. Data were collected and obtained from various sources, including PubMed and Scopus, for the research. In randomized controlled trials sprague–dawley rats were administered cyclodextrin inclusion complex formulations, Cmax (Hedge’s [95%CI] 2.26 [1.57–2.96]; p=0.00), and AUC (Hedge’s [95%CI] 2.08 [1.38–2.79]; p=0.00) improved. According to the reviewed studies in this meta-analysis, formulations of drugs in inclusion complex with cyclodextrins referred to as treatments were favored for bioavailability and solubility enhancement compared to the reference drugs. All of these characteristics may help with early drug development because of the process of inclusion of complex formation with cyclodextrins as the host and favorable guest molecules, resulting in enhanced drug profile characteristics.
